[3.3] FileManager documentation (#931)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/filemanager/overview.md

---
title: Overview
page_title: FileManager Overview
description: Overview of the FileManager for Blazor.
slug: filemanager-overview
tags: telerik,blazor,filemanager,overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Blazor FileManager Overview

> The <a href = "https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui/filemanager" target="_blank">Blazor FileManager component</a> is an Explorer-like component enabling you to manage file and folders.

Reviewer: This content can highlight the component benefits and purpose - list the 2-3 most important features here - e.g. uploading, downloading, renaming, details, etc.

> ## Creating Blazor FileManager

Reviewer: The three steps here are simple, while the example itself is complex. This makes the steps unnecessary, as they cannot guide the developer to configure the component. Can we make the example simpler, while the instructions more complex, so they meet half-way? For example - 

* `OnModelInit` can be present in the steps, if it's required.
* `OnDownload` can be removed, if it doesn't work anyway.
* Devote one bullet for `@bind-Path`.
* Devote one bullet for each event - for example, describe what does `OnCreate` do.
* `OnCreate` contains a hard-coded Id. What happens if the reader creates something multiple times?
* Ultimately, we can make the basic example "read-only", so that it just lists files.

1. Add the `TelerikFileManager` tag.
1. Set FileManager `Data` attribute to an `IEnumerable<TItem>`. [Read more for the component data binding]({%slug filemanager-data-binding-overview%}).
1. Handle the FileManager [events]({%slug filemanager-events%}) to allow file operations such as rename, delete, create new folder.

>caption Using FileManager

````CSHTML

> @page "/test"

Reviewer: do we need this?

> <h3>Context Menu sample</h3>

Reviewer: Is this heading needed and correct?

                DateModifiedUtc = new DateTime(2022, 2, 13),
                Path = Path.Combine(Images.Path, "dashboard-design.png"),
                Size = 1024
            };

        var gridDesign = new FlatFileEntry()
            {
                Id = "7",
                ParentId = Images.Id,
                Name = "Grid Design",
                IsDirectory = false,
                HasDirectories = false,
                Extension = ".jpg",
                DateCreated = new DateTime(2022, 1, 12),
                DateCreatedUtc = new DateTime(2022, 1, 12),
                DateModified = new DateTime(2022, 2, 13),
                DateModifiedUtc = new DateTime(2022, 2, 13),
                Path = Path.Combine(Images.Path, "grid-design.jpg"),
                Size = 1024
            };

        #endregion

        var files = new List<FlatFileEntry>()
            {
                workFiles,

                Documents,
                specification,
                report,

                Images,
                dashboardDesign,
                gridDesign
            };

        return await Task.FromResult(files);

    }
}
````

> ## Data Binding

Reviewer: This section contains a broader overview of the data binding mechanism, which is simple and clear. However, it looks like it is missing from the Data Binding Overview article and this may require the developer to read at both places for better understanding. Consider some content duplication or cross-linking.

The filemanager allows data binding to flat and hierarchical data. There are two alternative ways to provide data to the FileManager:

> * Set the FileManager Data attribute. In this case, the component will hold all the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set the FileManager `Data` attribute. In this case, the component will hold all the data.
```

> * Use the FileManager OnRead event and pass the data to the event argument. In this case, the FileManager will hold only the current set of data items.

Reviewer: Maybe this will be clearer (assuming its correct):

```suggestion
* Use the FileManager `OnRead` event and pass the data to the event argument. In this case, the FileManager will hold only the data items for the current folder.
```

The following list of resources provides details and examples for data binding a FileManager in various scenarios:

* General information on how data binding works - [FileManager Data Binding Overview]({%slug filemanager-data-binding-overview%}).

* Binding to a self-referencing flat data source - [Bind FileManager to Flat Self-Referencing Data]({%slug filemanager-data-binding-flat-data%}).

* Using hierarchical data source with item collections nested in each item - [Bind FileManager to Hierarchical Data]({%slug filemanager-data-binding-hierarchical-data%}).

> * Handling the OnRead event to provide only the current data - [FileManager `OnRead`]({%slug filemanager-events%}#onread).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Handling the `OnRead` event to provide only the current folder data - [FileManager `OnRead`]({%slug filemanager-events%}#onread).
```
